“Early Retirement Extreme: A philosophical and practical guide to financial independence” - Review Written on 25th January 2023

I always thought it was probably possible to retire early or achieve financial independence very early through aggressive saving/investing/frugality. 
When I discovered someone had actually done it and written a book about it. It peaked my interest. 
I actually found this book on a NEET forum, where extreme early retirement is seen as living the dream.

This book is written by a guy who was able to retire in his early 30s through frugality. 
It offers a very interesting view of the world from his perspective and 
in the later part of the book acts as a rough guide to achieving what he has achieved, 
while also not being a step-by-step instruction book on how to achieve extreme early retirement.

The book is heavily critical on consumerism among other aspects of modern society, and societal views. 
There are definitely aspects of his world view I agree with and other aspects I disagree with. 
I think this book is really aimed for people that are either just interested in the philosophical side like I was, 
or people that aren't good with money management but would like to get a better idea of how to become good.

Pretty much all the ideas he talks about in the book anyone could benefit from, 
even if done at a lesser extreme, as I think for a part I do. 

A new idea I was introduced to, was the idea of the “renaissance man”, which the author describes himself as.
The renaissance man, as described by the author, is someone who is interested in arts and learning, 
while being an expert in no field but proficient in many, an idea that many can probably resonate with. 

Other types of people are described as “salary men”, “working men”, & “businessmen”. 
One of the disagreements I have with the book's philosophy is that it describes people as being stuck within their type. 
The other 3 types of people are described as poor choices in the eyes of the renaissance man, 
due to the restrictions each one has and the idea that you are either one or the other. 
However the book does mention a few times when describing each type of person that individuals will probably have overlap,
but for a lot of the book this is kind of ignored, and particularly salary men, but also others, are painted in a negative light.

Overall, good and easy read, would recommend to people interested in philosophy or starting to get into money management.
